Sthorpe/securing data in transit in rest in use (#14330)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/reference-architecture/diagrams/security/securing-data-at-rest.md

---
title: Securing data at rest
pcx_content_type: reference-architecture-diagram
weight: 1
meta:
  title: "Reference Architecture Diagram: Securing data at rest"
---

# Securing data at rest

## Introduction

> Data at rest refers to data that is stored in a fixed location, such as on a local hard drive, on-premises server, or cloud storage. Many businesses today are using SaaS platforms which store a lot of business data in structured (databases) and unstructured forms (files such as documents, images, spreadsheets). The security of the actual storage of the data, such as encryption and reliable backups, is usually abstracted from your control. But the SaaS applications allow you to manage user accounts, define what data they have access to and also provide an ability to share access to data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data at rest refers to data that is stored in a fixed location, such as on a local hard drive, on-premises server, or cloud storage. Many businesses today are using SaaS platforms that store a lot of business data in structured forms (like databases) and unstructured forms (files like documents, images, spreadsheets). The security of the actual storage of the data, such as encryption and reliable backups, is usually abstracted from your control. But the SaaS applications allow you to manage user accounts, define what data they have access to, and also provide an ability to share access to data.
```

While Cloudflare mostly secures data in transit as it travels over our network, we also have the ability to connect to your SaaS applications and use our DLP profiles to examine data at rest that might not be adequately secured and then provide recommendations for you to take action.

## Protecting data with Cloudflare CASB

> Cloudflare's API-driven [Cloud Access Security Broker](/cloudflare-one/applications/scan-apps/) (CASB) works by integrating with SaaS APIs and discovering both unstructured data at rest (documents, spreadsheets, and so on) and also examining general configuration of the application and user accounts, to ensure data access controls are correctly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare's API-driven [Cloud Access Security Broker](/cloudflare-one/applications/scan-apps/) (CASB) works by integrating with SaaS APIs and discovering both unstructured data at rest (documents, spreadsheets, and so on) and also examining general configuration of the application and user accounts to ensure data access controls are correctly configured.
```

> [DLP profiles](/cloudflare-one/applications/scan-apps/casb-dlp/) are used to discover if files stored in your SaaS application contain sensitive data. Then matches are compared with access controls, and findings generated. For example, alerting you to a spreadsheet containing credit card information that is accessible by anyone on the Internet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[DLP profiles](/cloudflare-one/applications/scan-apps/casb-dlp/) are used to discover if files stored in your SaaS application contain sensitive data. Matches are then compared with access controls and findings are generated, such as findings to alert you to a spreadsheet that contains credit card information that is accessible by anyone on the Internet. 
```

> When Cloudflare CASB is combined with Cloudflare's [Secure Web Gateway](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/) service – which inspects all the traffic going to and from a SaaS application – customers can achieve comprehensive visibility into both data in transit and data at rest for SaaS applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Cloudflare CASB is combined with Cloudflare's [Secure Web Gateway](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/) service, which inspects all the traffic going to and from a SaaS application,  customers can achieve comprehensive visibility into both data in transit and data at rest for SaaS applications.
```

> ![Figure 1: Overall solution of user access controls to, and the discovery of sensitive data.](/images/reference-architecture/securing-data-at-rest/securing-data-at-rest-fig1.svg "Figure 1: Overall solution of user access controls to, and the discovery of sensitive data.")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Figure 1: Overall solution of user access controls to, and the discovery of, sensitive data.](/images/reference-architecture/securing-data-at-rest/securing-data-at-rest-fig1.svg "Figure 1: Overall solution of user access controls to, and the discovery of, sensitive data.")
```

## Securing user access to data at rest
1. Cloudflare authenticates users attempting to access SaaS applications, whether they are initiating the request from managed or unmanaged endpoints.
   1. For managed endpoints, we recommend deploying our [device agent](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/) to maximize visibility and control of all traffic between the end user’s device and the resources being requested.  

>    2. For unmanaged endpoints, we have [client-less solutions](/reference-architecture/diagrams/sase/sase-clientless-access-private-dns/) which all you to still have visibility over and inspection into the data accessed by users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. For unmanaged endpoints, we have [client-less solutions](/reference-architecture/diagrams/sase/sase-clientless-access-private-dns/) that allow you to still have visibility over and inspection into the data accessed by users. 
```
